# Exercise 3
## Creating small tools


1) Read [the man page for the UNIX command tee](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/tee.1.html).  
And [the Wikipedia page about it](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tee_(command)).

2) Write an implementation of `tee` that takes the same command-line
arguments (short form only, or for optional extra fun, both long and
short form).  Implementing the `-i` option is optional.

This is meant as an exercise in efficient C development, which includes:

* Problem decomposition: what pieces do I need?
1)Get contents (args too)
1.5) handle the args
2)Print to screen
3)Put into file/files

* Solution location: mostly Google->stackoverflow.

* Assimilation: bringing in the pieces and testing them.

* Integration: putting the pieces together.

For this particular problem, we could skip just find a solution.  But let's take the opportunity to practice.

3) Reflect: what worked, what slowed you down?  What would you do
differently next time?

To start I wrote down all the components I would need to make it the tee function. At first it seemed like a daunting task, but after writing down all the functionality, the job seemed more doable. Then I consulted Head First C regularly. The most recent chapter pretty much covered all the functionality I needed to know to make the tee command.

It worked really well for me to test incrementally, which is generally what I have been doing in this class. It also helped to find a couple good examples of reading the stdin and writing to files on stackoverflow. Overall nothing really took that long. I had to run the tee command a couple times to get a better understanding of what it dose and I could have done that sooner.

Next time, I wan't to spend less time googling examples and instead try to think through it myself first.


4) Compare your solution to [this professional implementation](https://opensource.apple.com/source/shell_cmds/shell_cmds-170/tee/tee.c) or [this one](http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=coreutils.git;a=blob;f=src/tee.c;h=5f04bfc86243911be2fb22c7c28447ae6fb0f993;hb=75aababed45d0120d44baa76c5107d0ceb71fc59).  What do you see in professional code that is not in your solution?

I see two major difference between the professional work and my code. They have tons more error checking. I am assuming almost every error case is covered with their code while you could easily break mine. Also the professional code set a lot more constants before jumping into the actual program as to not violate the DRY principle and to make their code more readable. This was necessary because they had a ton more options becuase of the error checking thing.


5) Write comments in your code to answer the last two questions, then check it in to the repo.
