
# Exercise 2

### The address space

1. Compile and run `aspace.c` in this directory.

2. Read the code.  You might want to [read about malloc here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_malloc.htm).

3. Based on the output, draw a sketch of the virtual address space (see page 80 of HFC).  Show the relative locations of the stack, heap, globals, constants, and code.

4. Add a second call to `malloc` and check whether the heap on your system grows up (toward larger addresses).
  -Yes, grows up

5. Add a function that prints the address of a local variable, and check whether the stack grows down.
  -Yes, grows down

6. Choose a random number between 1 and 32, and allocate two chunks with that size.
How much space is there between them?  Hint: Google knows how to subtract hexadecimal numbers.
  -I chose 10 and 22. I declared the 10 chunk first.
  -There were 10 bytes between them.


### Stack allocated data

1.  Read `stack.c`, which should be in this directory.  What is it
intended to do?  What would the output be if the program worked as
expected?

  -I believe it is intended to fill an array in two different ways.
  -The first function, foo, is to fill an array of size 5 with the number 42
    and return a pointer to the array.
  -The second function, bar, is to fill an array with each of its indices;
    i.e. array[3] = 3;
  -The main function calls both and prints which ever successful changes the
    local array variable.

2.  Compile it.  Do you get a warning?  What does it mean?
  -Yes, the warning was that an address of stack memory associated with local
    variable array was being returned from a function
  -I believe this warning means that since "array" is part of the foo function
    stack. When the function exits that memory is released, so the memory pointer
    to "array" will probably point to something that we did not intend it to be
    pointing at.

3.  Run it.  What happens?  You might get a segmentation fault, or you might get
some strange output.  Can you explain it?  You might find it
helpful to draw a stack diagram.
  -Yes, I got a strange output.
  -The pointer the main function was referencing for "array" (which was returned
    by the foo function) was no longer pointing to anything we actually cared
    about. That memory was released from holding actual values when the foo
    function returned and the array pointer became useless. This is what the
    warning was referencing.s

4.  Comment out the `print` statements in `foo()` and `bar()` and run
it again.  What happens now?
  -It shows that both foo and bar are referencing the same address for "array"

5.  Add comments to the code to explain these experiments and the results,
then check the code in to the repo.

Moral: Don't return pointers to stack allocated data!


### Adder

Create a file named `adder.c` and write a program that allows the user to enter integers, one per line, until the user hits Control-D, which is the end-of-file (EOF) character.

It should convert the numbers from input strings to integers and store the integers in an array.  The program should produce appropriate error messages if the user enters something that exceeds the length of the input buffer, or can't be converted to an integer.  It should also produce an error message if the user enters more numbers than will fit in the array.

After the user enters Control-D, the program should add up the numbers in the array and print the result.

Your program should be divided into at least two functions with well designed interfaces.

Optionally, the program should produce an error if the sum exceeds the largest integer that can be represented.

Hint: You will probably want to use two functions we haven't seen yet:

* strlen: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_strlen.htm)

* atoi: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_atoi.htm)

Before you use there functions, you need to `#include <string.h>`.
